

Donald Trump’s presidential campaign announced on Thursday that the presumptive Republican nominee had “fully extinguished” his loans to his presidential campaign.

The Trump campaign announced the loans totaled more than $50m, although the Federal Election Commission (FEC) only lists $45,703,185 loaned by the candidate to the campaign.

Although no documentation had been filed with the FEC online on Thursday afternoon, a Trump spokesperson told the Guardian: “My understanding is it is in process and will be completed today.”

In forgiving the loans, Trump sent a major signal to Republican donors who were worried that he would use campaign contributions to reimburse himself. So far, Trump has only raised $17m in individual contributions, many of which have come from small donors buying hats from his campaign.

In order to run a competitive campaign against Hillary Clinton in November, most observers agree Trump needs to ramp up fundraising significantly. He has held few fundraisers and only sent out his first fundraising email on Tuesday. In a fundraising email on Wednesday sent by Donald Trump Jr, the scion claimed that the campaign had raised $2m from that initial fundraising email.

Trump has long boasted that he was self-funding his campaign as a way to establish his bona fides as a candidate independent of Washington special interests. However, despite his claims that he is worth $10bn, outside experts have long looked skeptically at those assertions and many have raised questions about how much of his assets are actually liquid and easily available to be spent on the campaign.

In his most recent campaign finance report, Trump had spent $1.1m, nearly 20% of his overall spending in May, on businesses that he owned. This included more than $423,000 on facility rental and catering at his Florida resort, Mar-a-Lago, and another $350,000 on travel air on Tag Air, the holding company that owns Trump’s jet.

America faces an epic choice ...
... in the coming months, and the results will define the country for a generation. These are perilous times. Over the last three years, much of what the Guardian holds dear has been threatened – democracy, civility, truth.

The country is at a crossroads. Science is in a battle with conjecture and instinct to determine policy in the middle of a pandemic. At the same time, the US is reckoning with centuries of racial injustice – as the White House stokes division along racial lines. At a time like this, an independent news organisation that fights for truth and holds power to account is not just optional. It is essential.

The Guardian has been significantly impacted by the pandemic. Like many other news organisations, we are facing an unprecedented collapse in advertising revenues. We rely to an ever greater extent on our readers, both for the moral force to continue doing journalism at a time like this and for the financial strength to facilitate that reporting.

We believe every one of us deserves equal access to fact-based news and analysis. We’ve decided to keep Guardian journalism free for all readers, regardless of where they live or what they can afford to pay. This is made possible thanks to the support we receive from readers across America in all 50 states.

As our business model comes under even greater pressure, we’d love your help so that we can carry on our essential work.